♪ [music] ♪
In this video we're going to talk
about doing this tags page.
Now the tags page is going to be
a little bit different because
there's really two pieces of data that
needs to be pulled in for each of these
pages. First, we need a list of all of the
possible tags, and each tag needs to know
how many stores are in that tag. And then
second, when we go to a tag page,
like "family friendly," it's going to
filter for all of the stores that have
that specific tag. We have a little bit of
a problem. Let's focus on just this part
right now, and then in a future video,
we're going to look at
how do we filter for stores that have
that tag. So let's look at this tag bar
right now. The problem is how do we make
this sort of aggregation of all of the
tags? And if you were to think about this
right now, you might say,
"Okay, well, will you query every single
store?" Then we'll loop over every single
store, and we'll loop over every single
store's tags and then just count the
instances of that. However, that becomes a
little bit slow when you start to get a
lot of pieces of content, so if you have
1,000 stores, it doesn't make sense to
query 1,000 stores, have that data come
back, and then to loop over each and every
one of them. As soon as you get into large
data, that can become extremely slow to
actually have to get the documents back,
and you can run into problems with your
server running out of actual memory
because 10,000 documents, each with 10,
15 fields on them will start to eat up
your memory pretty quickly,
so that's actually not what we want to do.
And when we have a problem like this,
we need to ask ourselves, "How can I
offload the heavy lifting off of Node.js
and onto our database?" Because that's
what databases do. Databases are good at
doing complex queries, complex
aggregations. They're able to look at the
data and quickly filter it for the
specific stuff that it needs,
so we don't want to do that data in
Node.js specifically. We just want to
write some code in Node and then pass it
off to MongoDB and tell it,
"Hey, MongoDB, you can do this because
you're a little bit better at doing this
type of thing." So we're going to offload
the heavy lifting over to MongoDB with
something called an aggregation. And an
aggregation is the ability to...
I got the docs open right here... An
aggregation is the ability to do sort a
complex query where often you'll need to
do sort of, like, multiple steps
in a query. You might need to select
everything and then filter for those,
and then modify them or group them
together, or group and then filter each of
those groups. So if there's multiple steps
in your query and it's not just as simple
as, "Search for stores with a slug. Give
me stores with these tags.
Give me the latest top five stores." Those
are all very simple queries,
but when you get into more advanced
queries, you need to start looking at
aggregation and using all of these
different operators that MongoDB will
allow you to do. So an aggregation is
simply just an array. You see that they
have orders array, where you can pass it
multiple commands where it will first
match...in this case it matches for things
that have a status of A,
so you've got A, A, A, D. So that will
match only three of the subsetted ones
that we initially had. And then, you can
go ahead and group them together.
You can add things up. It's sort of like a
reduce function in JavaScript,
where you can take them from the stage
that they were in, in the raw document
format and process it into pretty much any
other format that you're looking for.
And in our case, we're going to take all
of the stores and turn it into...and we're
going to group it by the actual tags that
they have. So the first thing that we
should do is go to our tags page and we've
got a 404, so let's go into our index.js
and set up some routes for our
specific tags page. So I'm going to go to
the bottom here. I'm going to...you
can...these spaces aren't necessary.
I just have them for readability. Often
I'll say, "router.get/tags," and when that
happens, what we're going to do is to
catch errors, and we're going to use the
"storer controller.get stores by tag," and
then I actually want to set up another
route, so just duplicate that, and say,
"/tags/tag," and that is going to be a
colon tag. Why? Because when we look at
this one, it's going to be,
"/tags/family friendly," or, "WiFi" or
"Open late," or, "licensed." Whatever it
it. So we want to have routes
for both of those. You can also do,
I think it's a star question mark, and
that will have a Raj Ex route saying
that, "This piece right here is totally
optional. However, I often prefer just to
have two routes with the same controller
just so it's really explicit to me that I
have tags and "tags/the tag name." Good,
then we'll go into our store controller,
and we'll go to the bottom here, and we'll
have "exports.get stores by tag." Is that
what we called it? Yes it is. Equals
Async. Request response. I open that
sucker up, and then, "response.send." It
works. I've got to go back here and click
on my tags page, and we see it works.
Good. So now we know that that has all
been lined up. Now what we need to do is
get a list of all of the stores,
so we'll say, "const stores = await,"
and here is where it comes in a little bit
weird. We want to say, "store." and now
we're not going to say,
"find," because we want to get a list of
tags. So the way that that works is we can
create our own static methods that live on
our store model, and then we can name them
whatever it is that we could possibly
want. So we're going to call it,
"getTagslist," and that is what we're
going to have be returned to us.
Now we want to go back into our store
model here, "store.js" and scroll all the
way down, and we're going to take our
schema, say "storeSchema," and we're
going to add a method on to it. And the
way that you add a method on to the schema
is you put it on ".statics" and then you
make up a method name.
And what did we call ours? "Get tags
list," and that's going to be equal to a
function. It's important that we use a
proper function here. Why?
Because we need to use this inside of the
function, and this function is going to be
bound to our model. All of the static
methods are bound to the model,
meaning that we can use all of the
"this.find," and "this." We're going to
use aggregate inside of it. So do not use
an arrow function, otherwise we cannot use
'this" inside of it. So proper function
there. And from that we are going to
return "this.aggregate" and we're going to
open up and close our parentheses on it.
Now, "aggregate" is just a method like
"find" or "find by ID" or whatever it is
that we're looking for like "find one." So
aggregate, it will take an array of
possible operators of what we're looking
for. Now from that, you can start to use
any of the different aggregation
operators. And how you find those,
you just go to "MongoDB aggregate
operators" and we'll take a look.
Here we go. They're called pipeline
operators. The pipeline is this array
here, and you can see that there's all
these different operators,
and then the way that you can tell that
they're operators is that they always
start with a $ meaning that it still is an
object, but they do something special
because they start with a $. And so you
can match things. You can limit,
so maybe I want to match things that start
with "Wes," but limit it to two.
Or maybe I want to skip. I want to match
10 things but skip the first 10,
so give me 11 through 20, unwind group,
sample, sort, geo, near. We're going to be
looking at ones like .out, index,
faucet, bucket. There's all kinds of
different ones here, and whenever you need
to do any sort of complex query,
you'll find yourself on this page, looking
for the possible operators that make sense
for you. So in our case, we're going to
use one called "unwind" first.
Why? Because we're going to be grouping
all of our items by the number of tags
they have. But before you can group by,
you need to "unwind your stores" so that
for every single tag that exists for a
store, there's going to be that many
stores. That may not make a lot of sense,
but let's go through it right now.
So first thing we want to do, use $ or you
have to pass an object for each pipeline
operator. We'll unwind, and we're going to
unwind based on the...
and then in quotes use "$ tags." And what
that means is that by putting a $ in front
of it, you say that, "This is a field on
my document which I wish to unwind." Now
let's visualize some stuff here because
this is getting a little bit hairy.
So we'll go into our store controller
here. We get our stores,
and let's just say "res.json stores" and
then refresh our tags page.
Oh, "store.get tags list" is not a
function. Let's look at our "store.js"
file. I forgot to save. How does saving
work? There we go. Okay,
so what's happening here is that our first
bar, our first store was called "Brew
Bar," and it actually had a couple of
different tags. It had one called "family
friendly" and "licensed," right?
If we go to this in another page,
and we go to "Brew Bar," you see that it's
"family friendly" and "licensed." So what
we need to do when we're trying to count
our tags is we need to chalk one up for
"friendly family" and "family friendly,"
and we need to chalk one up for
"licensed." So by unwinding them, what we
do is we get an instance of a store for
"family friendly," and we get an instance
of a store for "licensed." So the coffee
shop has "family friendly" and it also has
"vegetarian." "Butcher and the Vegan" has
one for "WiFi," as well as "open late," as
well as "family friendly." So it's
duplicating the content here, and we don't
really care all that much because what we
need to do is each store needs to just
have one tag per se, and then we're going
to now go ahead and group them in our next
operator. So do comma here,
and we'll do another pipeline operator,
which is going to be "$ group," and we
want to group by something.
And what do we want to group it by?
We want to group it by tags as well as
count them as we're on our way.
So you have another object here, which is
the ID, which we're grouping it by.
It's going to be $ tags. And we are going
to count. We're going to create a new
property here called "count" which is
going to be equal to the sum.
And we're just going to add one. Now,
whew! This will probably seem a little bit
weird, especially if you're coming from
JavaScript, where you explicitly do
everything, and this is much more
described. But what we're doing here is
that we are going to group everything
based on the tag field, and then we're
going to create a new field in each of
those groups called "count." Now each time
that we group one of these items, a count
is going to sum itself by one,
or maybe it would be better if it was
called "add itself by one," but it's
called "sum by one." So let's see what
that gives us. Ah, this is more of what
we're looking for, so what that now
returns is not a list of stores because we
don't care about the stores, we just care
about a list of tags,
which will give us the ID, which is tags.
That's what we grouped it by: "Open late,"
"WiFi," "Vegetarian," Licensed," and
"Family friendly." And then we added a new
property called "Count" which is the sum
of one, and will tell us how many are in
each of them. Finally, what we want to do
is "sort by most popular" so "family
friendly" has six and "WiFi" has one. That
should be the last, family friendly,
should be first, so that 's just another
thing in our pipeline. We will use the
operator "sort" and we want to "sort by"
the "count" property,
and you can either do it ascending or
descending, which is one or negative one.
So when I write these things, I find
myself often on stack overflow or looking
at little examples of what I'm trying to
do because they can be fairly complicated,
but if you just break it down into the
different pieces of...first unwind it,
then group it, then sort that. Then you're
able to sort of see the different
factories of your piping data into one,
out of the other, into another.
And I guess that's
why it's called "Pipeline"
is because you're piping data
in and out, in and out,
in and out of all of these different
operators. So now if I refresh that here,
we actually have our list of tags. Good.
So we can go back to our controller here,
and this should not be called "stores." It
should be called "tags." So "const tags
= awaits store.tags." Now we're going
to render out a tag pug file.
So we'll say "res.render." I'm going to
render out the tag file,
and we're going to pass along a bunch of
data, so we'll say the "tags = tags." And
you're probably getting sick of me saying
this, but you know that you can just pass
it like that. Then what other data did we
need? We need a title,
which is going to be...let's just call it
"tags" for now. We're going to come back
and replace that. So that's good and then
we'll make a new file in our views called
"tags.pug extend layout lock content,"
give ourselves an "inner div" inside of
that "H2 = title." Let's just double check
that that's actually working.
So now if I refresh this. "Failed to look
up. View tag in..." because I called this
"tags" with an "s." I need to rename that
to just "tag." There we go.
Refresh. You see tags. Can we do a quick
dump? "Three = H.dump tags." There we go.
Now we see all of the actual data that we
have. So we can just quickly loop over
those. You all with the class of "tags"
then we say "each T N tags," so I'm just
going to call this one "short form T" and
you'll say "li.tags" or "li.tag." A with a
class of "tag_ _ link" and that is going
to link off to "/tags/" and this is how we
are going to grab it. So it's going to
link to "/Open late/ Vegetarian." So if
"T" is the tag property object, then how
do we get the ID? Well it's "T.
_ID." That's good, and then inside of
that, we want to have a span with a class
of tag text, "Tag_ID." And we'll have
another one with a tag "_count," which
will be a "T.count." Good. "Family
Friendly," "Open Late," "Vegetarian,"
"Licensed" and "WiFi." Now if I were to
click over to one of them,
you can take that a little bit further, so
I'll click on "Open late." There we go.
Now we're on the "Open Late" page. It
would be cool if we could highlight the
"Open Late" to be active. So in order to
do that, we need to pass the data about
what page we're on over to our template.
We'll head back to our store controller,
and up here we'll say, "const tag =
request.params.tag" and then we'll pass
the data over here. Tag, and we'll go back
into our file here and we could put in
parentheses...here if we make this just
"H2 title " and then we could do another
one "Tag." Put it in parentheses, then if
we are on "Open Late,
Vegetarian, Licensed, WiFi, then we could
even replace the title altogether just
with the actual tag property. So now if we
click through to each of them,
we're in good shape. Then we want to add
an active class to this link when we are
on the page. So this link right here, we
want to add a class. Even though we used a
class this way, you can also add class
properties like this. And that class is
going to be equal to parentheses. And
we're going to say, "If the tag
ID"...which is going to be the name of the
tag..."is equal to"...
Triple equals the actual tag, so if
they're the same, which means that if
we're on "Licensed," and the current
iteration is licensed, then we want to...?
This is a turnary operator where you say
"tag_link," "Only two - - active."
Otherwise, we're just going to put
nothing. Give that a refresh.
And now you see like, when you are on that
page, it will give it a class of "taglink
active," and then the CSS, which makes it
purple, will kick in and actually
highlight that specific one. Good. We'll
just go back to our tags page here.
You'll see that there is actually nothing
here. So you could say,
"Tag" or "Tags" in the title. And then on
the tags page, it's going to fall back to
the word "tags." And if we actually are on
a specific tags page,
then we can see which one we have. Whew, I
feel like that was a lot of me saying the
word "Tags," so let's take a break. Go
grab a coffee, and I'll meet you back in
the next video where we look at how to
query for specific stores that have that
specific...
♪ [music] ♪